[Inductor] [Doc] Add tutorial for Inductor Cpp Wrapper as a prototype feature for PyTorch 2.1 (#2510)
pytorch/tutorials: prototype_source/inductor_cpp_wrapper_tutorial.rst

> Inductor cpp wrapper tutorial

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inductor C++ Wrapper Tutorial
```

==============================================================

**Author**: `Chunyuan Wu <https://github.com/chunyuan-w>`_, `Bin Bao <https://github.com/desertfire>`__, `Jiong Gong <https://github.com/jgong5>`__

> Prerequisites:
> ------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prerequisites:
----------------
```

-  `torch.compile and TorchInductor concepts in PyTorch <https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/torch_compile_tutorial.html>`__

Introduction
------------

> Python as the primary interface of PyTorch is ease-of-use and efficient for development and debugging.
> Inductor default wrapper generates Python code to invoke generated kernels and external kernels.
> However, in deployment that requires high performance, Python as an interpreted language is slower compared
> with compiled language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Python, as the primary interface of PyTorch, is easy to use and efficient for development and debugging. 
The Inductor's default wrapper generates Python code to invoke generated kernels and external kernels.
However, in deployments requiring high performance, Python, as an interpreted language, runs relatively slower compared to compiled languages.
```

> We implemented Inductor cpp wrapper by leveraging the PyTorch C++ APIs
> to generate pure cpp code to combine the generated and external kernels, which makes the
> execution of each captured dynamo graph in pure cpp. This reduces the Python overhead within the graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We implemented an Inductor C++ wrapper by leveraging the PyTorch C++ APIs
to generate pure C++ code that combines the generated and external kernels.
This allows for the execution of each captured Dynamo graph in pure C++,
thereby reducing the Python overhead within the graph.
```

API
------------

> This feature is still in prototype stage. To turn it on, the below code change is needed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature is still in prototype stage. To activate this feature, add the following to your code:
```

.. code:: python

    import torch._inductor.config as config
    config.cpp_wrapper = True

> This will speed up your models by reducing the python overhead of the inductor wrapper.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will speed up your models by reducing the Python overhead of the Inductor wrapper.
```

Example code
------------
Taken the below frontend code as an example:

.. code:: python
    
    import torch

    def fn(x):
        return torch.tensor(list(range(2, 40, 2)), device=x.device) + x

    x = torch.randn(1)
    opt_fn = torch.compile()(fn)
    y = opt_fn(x)

> 1. CPU

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**For CPU**
```

> The main part of inductor generated code with the default python wrapper will be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main part of Inductor-generated code with the default python wrapper will look like this:
```

.. code:: python

    def call(args):
        arg0_1, = args
        args.clear()
        assert_size_stride(arg0_1, (1, ), (1, ))
        buf0 = empty_strided((19, ), (1, ), device='cpu', dtype=torch.float32)
        cpp_fused_add_lift_fresh_0(c_void_p(constant0.data_ptr()), c_void_p(arg0_1.data_ptr()), c_void_p(buf0.data_ptr()))
        del arg0_1
        return (buf0, )

> By turning on cpp wrapper, the generated code for the ``call`` function becomes a cpp function
> ``inductor_entry_cpp`` of the CPP extension ``module``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By turning on the C++ wrapper, the generated code for the ``call`` function becomes a  C++ function
``inductor_entry_cpp`` of the C++ extension ``module``:
```

.. code:: python

    std::vector<at::Tensor> inductor_entry_cpp(const std::vector<at::Tensor>& args) {
        at::Tensor arg0_1 = args[0];
        at::Tensor constant0 = args[1];
        auto buf0 = at::empty_strided({19L, }, {1L, }, at::device(at::kCPU).dtype(at::kFloat));
        cpp_fused_add_lift_fresh_0((long*)(constant0.data_ptr()), (float*)(arg0_1.data_ptr()), (float*)(buf0.data_ptr()));
        arg0_1.reset();
        return {buf0};
    }

    module = CppWrapperCodeCache.load(cpp_wrapper_src, 'inductor_entry_cpp', 'c2buojsvlqbywxe3itb43hldieh4jqulk72iswa2awalwev7hjn2', False)

    def _wrap_func(f):
        def g(args):
            args_tensor = [arg if isinstance(arg, torch.Tensor) else torch.tensor(arg) for arg in args]
            constants_tensor = [constant0]
            args_tensor.extend(constants_tensor)                    

            return f(args_tensor)
        return g
    call = _wrap_func(module.inductor_entry_cpp)

> 2. GPU

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**For GPU**
```

> Based on the same example code, below demonstrated the generated code on GPU.
> With the default python wrapper, the main generated code will be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on the same example code, the generated code for GPU can will look like this:
```

.. code:: python

    def call(args):
        arg0_1, = args
        args.clear()
        assert_size_stride(arg0_1, (1, ), (1, ))
        with torch.cuda._DeviceGuard(0):
            torch.cuda.set_device(0) # no-op to ensure context
            buf0 = empty_strided((19, ), (1, ), device='cuda', dtype=torch.float32)
            # Source Nodes: [add, tensor], Original ATen: [aten.add, aten.lift_fresh]
            stream0 = get_cuda_stream(0)
            triton_poi_fused_add_lift_fresh_0.run(constant0, arg0_1, buf0, 19, grid=grid(19), stream=stream0)
            run_intermediate_hooks('add', buf0)
            del arg0_1
            return (buf0, )

> With cpp wrapper turned on, the below equivalent cpp code will be generated:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the C++ wrapper turned on, the below equivalent C++ code will be generated:
```

        }
        CUdeviceptr var_0 = reinterpret_cast<CUdeviceptr>(constant0.data_ptr());
        CUdeviceptr var_1 = reinterpret_cast<CUdeviceptr>(arg0_1.data_ptr());
        CUdeviceptr var_2 = reinterpret_cast<CUdeviceptr>(buf0.data_ptr());
        auto var_3 = 19;
        void* kernel_args_var_0[] = {&var_0, &var_1, &var_2, &var_3};
        cudaStream_t stream0 = at::cuda::getCurrentCUDAStream(0);
        launchKernel(triton_poi_fused_add_lift_fresh_0, 1, 1, 1, 1, 0, kernel_args_var_0, stream0);
        arg0_1.reset();
        return {buf0};
    }

    module = CppWrapperCodeCache.load(cpp_wrapper_src, 'inductor_entry_cpp', 'czbpeilh4qqmbyejdgsbpdfuk2ss5jigl2qjb7xs4gearrjvuwem', True)

    def _wrap_func(f):
        def g(args):
            args_tensor = [arg if isinstance(arg, torch.Tensor) else torch.tensor(arg) for arg in args]
            constants_tensor = [constant0]
            args_tensor.extend(constants_tensor)

            return f(args_tensor)
        return g
    call = _wrap_func(module.inductor_entry_cpp)

Conclusion
------------

> With this tutorial, we introduces a new cpp wrapper in TorchInductor to speed up your
> models with two lines of code change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In this tutorial, we introduced a new C++ wrapper in TorchInductor to speed up your models with just two lines of code changes.
```
Can we addd a couple more sentences here to expand on what the user have learned and what else they should read on the topic.

Author: I've added more details in the Conclusion part.

The Inductor's default wrapper generates Python code to invoke generated kernels and external kernels.
However, in deployments requiring high performance, Python, as an interpreted language, runs relatively slower compared to compiled languages.

We implemented an Inductor C++ wrapper by leveraging the PyTorch C++ APIs
to generate pure C++ code that combines the generated and external kernels.
This allows for the execution of each captured Dynamo graph in pure C++,
thereby reducing the Python overhead within the graph.

API
------------
This feature is still in prototype stage. To activate this feature, add the following to your code:

.. code:: python

    import torch._inductor.config as config
    config.cpp_wrapper = True

This will speed up your models by reducing the Python overhead of the Inductor wrapper.

Example code
------------

We will use the below frontend code as an example:

.. code:: python
    
    import torch

    def fn(x):
        return torch.tensor(list(range(2, 40, 2)), device=x.device) + x

    x = torch.randn(1)
    opt_fn = torch.compile()(fn)
    y = opt_fn(x)

**For CPU**

> The main part of Inductor-generated code with the default python wrapper will look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main part of Inductor-generated code with the default Python wrapper will look like this:
```

.. code:: python

    def call(args):
        arg0_1, = args
        args.clear()
        assert_size_stride(arg0_1, (1, ), (1, ))
        buf0 = empty_strided((19, ), (1, ), device='cpu', dtype=torch.float32)
        cpp_fused_add_lift_fresh_0(c_void_p(constant0.data_ptr()), c_void_p(arg0_1.data_ptr()), c_void_p(buf0.data_ptr()))
        del arg0_1
        return (buf0, )

> By turning on the C++ wrapper, the generated code for the ``call`` function becomes a  C++ function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By turning on the C++ wrapper, the generated code for the ``call`` function becomes a C++ function
```

        }
        CUdeviceptr var_0 = reinterpret_cast<CUdeviceptr>(constant0.data_ptr());
        CUdeviceptr var_1 = reinterpret_cast<CUdeviceptr>(arg0_1.data_ptr());
        CUdeviceptr var_2 = reinterpret_cast<CUdeviceptr>(buf0.data_ptr());
        auto var_3 = 19;
        void* kernel_args_var_0[] = {&var_0, &var_1, &var_2, &var_3};
        cudaStream_t stream0 = at::cuda::getCurrentCUDAStream(0);
        launchKernel(triton_poi_fused_add_lift_fresh_0, 1, 1, 1, 1, 0, kernel_args_var_0, stream0);
        arg0_1.reset();
        return {buf0};
    }

    module = CppWrapperCodeCache.load(cpp_wrapper_src, 'inductor_entry_cpp', 'czbpeilh4qqmbyejdgsbpdfuk2ss5jigl2qjb7xs4gearrjvuwem', True)

    def _wrap_func(f):
        def g(args):
            args_tensor = [arg if isinstance(arg, torch.Tensor) else torch.tensor(arg) for arg in args]
            constants_tensor = [constant0]
            args_tensor.extend(constants_tensor)

            return f(args_tensor)
        return g
    call = _wrap_func(module.inductor_entry_cpp)

Conclusion
------------

In this tutorial, we introduced a new C++ wrapper in TorchInductor to speed up your models with just two lines of code changes.

> We explained the motivation of this new feature and walked through the ease-of-use API to activate this experimental feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We explained the motivation of this new feature and walked through the easy-to-use API to activate this experimental feature.
```

> We demonstrated the Inductor-generated code using the default python wrapper and the new C++ wrapper on both CPU and GPU

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, we demonstrated the Inductor-generated code using the default Python wrapper and the new C++ wrapper on both CPU and GPU
```

Inductor cpp wrapper tutorial
==============================================================

**Author**: `Chunyuan Wu <https://github.com/chunyuan-w>`_, `Bin Bao <https://github.com/desertfire>`__, `Jiong Gong <https://github.com/jgong5>`__

Prerequisites:
------------
-  `torch.compile and TorchInductor concepts in PyTorch <https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/torch_compile_tutorial.html>`__

Introduction
------------

Inductor wrapper generates python code to invoke generated kernels and external kernels.
To reduce the Python overhead of the wrapper and to serve as an intermediate step to support deployment in environments without Python, 
we implemented cpp wrapper which generates cpp code to combine the generated and external kernels.

API
------------
This feature is still in prototype stage. To turn it on, the below code change is needed:

.. code:: python

    import torch._inductor.config as config
    config.cpp_wrapper = True

This will speed up your models by reducing the python overhead of the inductor wrapper.

Example code
------------

> Below is an example of generated code with the default python wrapper:

Reviewer 2: Better to add the frontend model code for clarity?

Author: The corresponding frontend code has been added.

Inductor cpp wrapper tutorial
==============================================================

**Author**: `Chunyuan Wu <https://github.com/chunyuan-w>`_, `Bin Bao <https://github.com/desertfire>`__, `Jiong Gong <https://github.com/jgong5>`__

Prerequisites:
------------
-  `torch.compile and TorchInductor concepts in PyTorch <https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/torch_compile_tutorial.html>`__

Introduction
------------

> 

Reviewer 3: The intro doesn't really explain why this useful, you generate python code to invoke kernels in which case how does this reduce python overhead?

Would suggest adding a longer explaination here

Author: Added more details in the Introduction to state that the default Inductor generates python code while the proposed cpp wrapper produces cpp code in order to reduce the overhead of the interpreted language.

API
------------
This feature is still in prototype stage. To turn it on, the below code change is needed:

.. code:: python

    import torch._inductor.config as config
    config.cpp_wrapper = True

This will speed up your models by reducing the python overhead of the inductor wrapper.

Example code
------------
Taken the below frontend code as an example:

.. code:: python
    
    import torch

    def fn(x):
        return torch.tensor(list(range(2, 40, 2)), device=x.device) + x

    x = torch.randn(1)
    opt_fn = torch.compile()(fn)
    y = opt_fn(x)

The main part of inductor generated code with the default python wrapper will be:

.. code:: python

    def call(args):
        arg0_1, = args
        args.clear()
        assert_size_stride(arg0_1, (1, ), (1, ))
        buf0 = empty_strided((19, ), (1, ), device='cpu', dtype=torch.float32)
        cpp_fused_add_lift_fresh_0(c_void_p(constant0.data_ptr()), c_void_p(arg0_1.data_ptr()), c_void_p(buf0.data_ptr()))
        del arg0_1
        return (buf0, )

By turning on cpp wrapper, the generated code for the ``call`` function becomes a cpp function
``inductor_entry_cpp`` of the CPP extension ``module``:

> .. code:: python

Reviewer 3: what about gpu triton code?

Author: @msaroufim I've added the gpu triton code.
